From Hanselman is.com. It's Hanselman.
It's a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin business
law. It's Ryan announcing show
number one 12 recorded live
Tuesday, April 22nd, 2008. Support for Hanselman
it's just provided by. Tellerik
already controls the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web applications.
online@wwwdottelerik.com. Support is also provided
by.net developers journal the world's
leading.net developer magazine online at
www dot  dot com.
In this episode, Scott discusses
the past present and future
of.net unit testing frameworks with
developers, Charlie pool, Jeff Brown, Brad
Wilson, and Roy Asha road.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes, and I'm sitting
here@theall.net conference in Redmond, Washington
with a panel of unit
testing experts. We've got Charlie
Poole maintain our event unit,
got Roy Osher, ova developer
type Mark, and the author
of the upcoming art of
unit testing book. We've got
Jeff Brown, the lead on B
unit, and we've got Brad
Wilson, the cocreator of X
unit.net. This is the first
time I've had this many
people on the show, and
I appreciate your guys as
patients as we have our
very first panel on Hansel
minutes. But I figured when
I get this many people
who know about unit testing
all in one place at
one time, I had to
sit down and sit and
talk to you guys. Now
I've been an end unit
guy from, from way back
and I used end unit
at my last job. And,
and that was always the
canonical example. And sometimes people
say that's the first example
of the beginning of moving
a lot of things over
from, from Java, moving things
from Java in the sense
that J unit in some
respects, begat and unit, would
you agree with that, Charlie?
Well, it's the first example
in the.net world, perhaps not
the first, but the first
a very well known one
of course, a lot of
things got moved from Java
to many different languages and
I should say, you know,
we're very glad to have
you as a user. Yeah,
thank you. But I bet
there's a lot of options
now and we've got these
options assembled in this room
and that's one of the
things we want to talk
about, but is that a
good thing to bring things
over from Java? Are we
being derivative and as being
derivative? I think it's really
not that important where they,
where they came from. We're
all developing software, we're using
different technologies. We can learn
a lot from each other,
even after the stuff has
been brought over. We're continuing
to pick up new ideas
from the Java community, from
the Ruby community, From Python
folks. And it all applies
once we translate it to
our own environment. So there's
no unit testing, blood feud
that's going on. I think
not. Yeah. Now MV unit
is known for its role.
It's wrote test attribute and
road test was considered to
be particularly innovative. And a
lot of people got excited
about ambient when they saw
that. So what is road
test and, and why should
I care? So road test
is a very simple way
to run a parameterized unit
tests with a bunch of
different values. So basically let's
suppose you have a simple
algorithm which manipulate strings and
with certain kinds of strings
will produce a result. And
with certain other kinds of
strings, like maybe an empty
one will produce a different
result, but the structure of
the test itself is all
pretty much the same. So
you can very easily parameterize
your test and, and then
reduce the amount of code
that you have to write
in essentially. But there's, there's
a whole lot more you
can do beyond that. But
the idea that, that you
would slap an attribute on
a test and suddenly that
test became a test of
many, many things. It seems
like a, you know, as
a deceptively simple thing, but
it was very, very powerful
and it got a lot
of people excited about that.
Oh yeah. That's, that's actually
one of our most popular
features and it's been, it's
been duplicated and then a
lot of different testing frameworks,
which is, which was good
to see actually. And, and
I understand that you can
pull that, not just from
data that you can stack
and attributes, but you can
pull it from a database.
Even you can have database
driven tests or integration tests,
row a row tests are
just one special case where
the data is embedded inside
of the inside of the
source code, but we can
be pulling data from files.
We can pull it from
a database. We can pull
it recently. A lot of
people are liking that we
can pull from CSV files.
Hmm. Interesting. Portable databases. Now
Brad, when, when X unit.net
came out, my first impression
was, do we need another
one? But a lot of
pragmatists are saying, well, of
course, you know, of course
we can continue to have
as many as it'll take
and people will use the
one that makes them, makes
them happy. Why did you
feel the need to write
yet another unit testing framework?
So just to be clear
when Jim and I, Jim
Newkirk, he was on one
of the guys who did
any two Oh and work
with Charlie, Jim and I
we're, we're looking to sort
of take our experience writing
unit tests with mostly with
on unit some with ms.
Test instead of visual studio
and which is not represented
here. Interestingly, I guess I'll
play that guy. We were
looking to sort of take
some of our experience and
turn it into a unit
testing framework that was sort
of opinionated in the sense
that we wanted to give
people guidance on the things
that we felt were good
for unit testing. So we
made a lot of changes
that made people uncomfortable. We
renamed attributes, we took a
lot of attributes away and
we sort of scaled down
the core to something really
small in order to sort
of represent the core of
what we felt was important
for TDD style unit testers.
You know, that's a really
interesting the way that you
phrase that in saying you
have a very opinionated And
I would even go so
far as to say unapologetically
opinionated unit testing framework. Well,
yeah, you know, me, so
unapologetic, unapologetically opinionated is me.
And rather than I look
sometimes in the older versions
of an unit juxtaposed with
the newer versions of MB
unit, and I thought that
that was kind of evolutionary
well, X unit.net has removed
a great deal of things.
You've basically given people less
rope with which to hang
themselves. That was, you know,
Jim and I have spent
a lot of time talking
at conferences about, you know,
the things that do work
and the things that can
get you in trouble. And
so we felt like giving
people that guidance by taking
those functionality out of the
testing framework was very important.
So one of the ones
that you removed virtually completely
was the setup and tear
down where people were putting
great deal of code in
there and their setups into
prepare for the test and
that test, that code ultimately
doesn't get tested. Of course,
right. There was, there's actually
two driving factors. One is
Jim and I both believe
that set up and tear
down our men often overused
thing, and it can make
tests very difficult to understand,
but there was another sort
of driving factor as well,
which was set up and
tear down as attributes on
methods had strange behavior associated
with it that wasn't really
consistent with the.net framework. And
so we decided that the
thing that sort of best
describes set up and tear
down to us was a
constructor and dispose. And so
we remove, set up and
tear down in favor of
constructor and disposed to sort
of say, let's make better
use of the framework we've
already got and the rules
we already understand. Hmm. Interesting.
Now, what are some of
the features that you guys
are working on an end
unit that are kind of
innovative for the next version?
Well, one I do have
to interject does something where
you want to take it,
Charlie. I think it's, it's
quite interesting that X unit
these days is the opinionated
framework because Indian, it used
to be the framework we
used to say with attitude,
testing with that. And we
would refuse to add features
that we didn't think people
should be using. And it's
probably no coincidence that a
Jim Newkirk who is involved
in both in both projects
as an unit has moved
along. Some of us have
gotten convinced that we can't
keep refusing features to people
because we think they're not
good for them. That, that
we used to feel like
some of the other frameworks,
perhaps MBA unit would be
an example we're over featured
and we're giving people too
many different choices to make.
And our users would complain
about that. And we would
say, well, no, we think
this is the way TDD
unit testing should be done.
Now we're moving, I think
towards sort of a new
balance, but maybe somewhere with
still some opinions about what's
right, and what should be
in and what should be
out, but a little more
towards giving people more things.
So working now, putting in
the data-driven features like test
case, which works similar to
a road test. And the
reason that wasn't in before
is that people used to
believe that you couldn't do
a test driven development with
those data-driven sort of cases.
And now it looks like
you probably can, now that
we understand a little better,
how debts driven development works
Now, Roy, you, as an
agile practitioner, do you have
some opinions I'm sure about
this is the kitchen sink
approach better is the more
lightweight approach. Well, when X
unit to first came out,
I was really skeptical about
using it. I thought probably
the same as you. Why
do we need another one?
And I didn't like the
fact that it was not
backwards compatible, so it was
almost impossible or virtually impossible
to, to, to move to
it. If you have a
lot of existing tests with
one of the other frameworks,
especially if you had set
up and tear down, it
was hard to maintain that
kind of code and move
it over. But I think
as time moved past, I'm
more comfortable with doing stuff
with X unit for Greenfield
code. I mean, I have
no problem with that. I
think it's actually a very
good thing for people who
try to do minimalist thing
that they believe in the
fact that there are three
frameworks or three big framework
frameworks to choose from is
good because it creates sort
of a virtual competition, not
in terms of features, but
in terms of approaching the
community in different ways. So
N unit and approaches the
community differently than MB unit
in terms of features or
extensibility or API and X,
you need to approach the
community very differently by minimalism
and by being very, very
opinionated and especially having, starting
to work at Tidemark, which
is a very opinionated framework
by itself, a lot of
people would say, I'm starting
to appreciate that kind of
a, that kind of a
worldview. You look at your
head a comment. Oh Sure.
So, so what I find
is great right now is
that we are seeing a
lot of different innovation appearing
in the unit testing space
again. And you know, part
of this actually I think
is somewhat being catalyzed by
the X unit net stuff
coming out. And we're just
looking at all sorts of
different ways that we can
meet the needs of the
community. So, you know, traditionally
Amber unit for example, is,
is taking this approach where
we, we want to meet
as diverse, a set of
needs as possible. And that
has meant there. And there's
been a certain explosion in
the number of features provided.
But now with version three,
coming out, we are actually
the feature set To a
great extent. We're retaining a
very wide scope in that
we want to be able
to do unit testing, but
also integration testing. But each
of these, each of these
features now is more primitive
and more composable. And we're
trying to find ways to
reduce the cognitive weight of
the framework while still allowing
people a lot of flexibility.
Hmm. I've got a question
about, about reuse and I'm
just going to take a
brief moment here to thank
our sponsors and we'll be
right back. Hi, it's Scott
here from another place in
time. I hope you're enjoying
the show so far. I
apologize for interrupting it, but
I wanted to let you
know that assembling a podcast
like this every week, isn't
free. Certainly the bandwidth bill
crushes us every month. So
I want to let you
know that this show is
sponsored by Tellerik. They make
the show possible and they
make some pretty cool products
as well. For example, if
you're trying to build a
web 2.0 age, actually application
trying to use the web
1.0 components, it's kind of
difficult. You gotta get the
next gen stuff. If you
want to build the next
gen websites. And that's exactly
what the folks at Tellerik
of God and their new
upcoming product, which is code
named rad controls. Prometheus's big
pack, a web controls built
entirely on top of the
Microsoft ASP net Ajax stuff
that you already understand. It's
going to give you a
lot of performance interactivity on
your next project. They mirror
the ASP net Ajax API.
So the development's really straightforward
client scripture's shared loading time
is pretty fast. You set
a couple of properties. You
can even bind a web
services for really efficient operation.
The new rad editor for
ASB at Ajax loads up
to four times faster than
before. And the rad grid
will do thousands of records
in milliseconds. But of course
it's better to try these
things for yourself. So you
can visit  dot com
slash ESPN at Ajax and
download a trial. Thanks a
lot for listening and we'll
get right back to the
show. So one of the
things that I found in,
in writing unit tests in
each of these frameworks that
we're talking about here today,
as well as ms test
is I find that things
get considerably more and more
complicated. And I find that
of course, that my test
becomes a program in and
of itself. And I want
to start writing classes and
utilities and things. And I'm
seeing in all three frameworks
that there is more focused
on extensibility on ways to
say, I want the framework
to work like, like this,
what are some of the
mechanisms for sensibility in each
of your, in each of
your frameworks? So we felt
it was very important for
us to be able to
have extensibility even our extension
points. In fact, we even
went to the point of
designing the framework. The minimalism
went all the way down
to, you know, as many
things as we could push
out into extensions. We did
because we wanted to ensure
that our extensibility model was
effective by, you know, 90%
of what you get as
an extension. How much can
I hurt myself? If you
have a unit testing framework,
that's that extensible, it sounds
like it really, really hurt
myself. You could hurt yourself,
but you could also do
yourself. Great, good. So there's
always the potential with, with
any, with any tool that
you can shoot yourself in
the foot, you know, just
don't drop the hammer that
said there, there are certain
conventions perhaps That you should
choose to adhere to. And
in order to avoid shooting
yourself in the foot, what
I'm, what I'm trying to
think about is that something
like road testing seems like
a reasonable extension that everyone
should support. And being able
to pull information from an
external database, whether it be
an Excel or an actual
database or CSV, but what
else could I possibly want
to add to a nomadic
show and possibly want to
add to a unit testing
framework, all sorts of stuff.
So MBA unit takes, takes
a very strong approach towards
extensibility wherein you can refine
and vary the semantics of
tests themselves. So the test
framework gives you, it gives
you all of these built
in tests, but you can
add new stuff to them.
For example, one thing people
have wanted to be able
to do is to use
a rollback attribute, to apply
to the entire test fixture.
And that's something that, that
we are capable of. Another
thing people have wanted, and
it appears the next unit
also is a rich support
for metadata. So we want
to be able to annotate
a test with information that
is used for managing it.
What category does it belong
to? Who wrote it? You
know, is it important? And,
and other such things, we
actually go a step further
and we capture, we capture
the XML documentation associated with
the method we capture the
source code location associated with
the tests and, and a
bunch of other things as
well. Now, Charlie, you had
said before that there were
a number of features that
were being requested by your
community. And you're starting to
think that maybe being the
minimalist, a test framework, isn't,
isn't where it's at. What
kind of things are they
asking for? And that you
may have previously turned down?
Well, a classic example is
the ability to run one's
tests in a particular order.
Me a number of times,
yeah. Four test people who
are into test driven development
that raises the specter that
you're trying to run the
tests in a certain order,
because you're going to create
dependencies among your tests. And
if you're a test driven
unit test or you don't
want to see that happen,
however, people do manage to
come up with use cases
where it's reasonable to run,
to run some tests in,
in a certain order. And
it's hard to turn them
down on that basis. So
what we came up with
for N unit in the
2.4 series was the notion
that the core bits that
allow you to write typical
test driven development tests would
be in an unit. And
those kinds of things like
ordering tests would be an
extensions. And we created an
extensibility model. Now our extensibility
model is a little different
from MV in it because
it's aimed at people who
are actually writing extensions to
be distributed to others. That's
not really aimed at the
testers, the programmers, the users,
themselves writing the extension. So
it's a little, a little
more general and more complicated
to use, Harder to use,
I would say. And so
we had the hope of
many people volunteering to write
extensions for these features. It's
been very slow taking off
that people who might write
an extension for anion it
to do something have typically
turned around and written a
framework instead, and just written
their own test framework. Developers
are kind of perverse that
way. Yeah, that definitely is
very challenging. I know that
I've written a number of
things to extend both end
unit and Nat at my
previous job, but they're just
still there. They became internal
for some reason that last
mile, that moment where I'm
leaning at the tape at
the finish line to go
and put it out into
the world, something prevented me
from doing that. There are
a lot of them like
that out there that are
just waiting around in people's
companies for other people to
use. So we have set
up a place where we
can showcase them. And a
I'm going to try to
take it a bit further
and, and start doing some
examples myself and other people
on the end unit team,
writing them to show what
can be done and to
see if that stirs up
the interest a little more.
Right. Yeah. I just wanted
to add that. The, one
of the things that we
talked about here in the
conference, we had a couple
of sessions about where those,
well, at least two of
the three tools here are
going, what's the future of
any unit, whereas the MBO
need going with Jaleo and
we didn't even talk about
Gallio and what I want
to raise Leo, being a
code name for a new
feature or a new product
within the NBA family. I'll
have to talk about that.
I'll I'll, I'll explain to
you two sentences. And then
Jeff will explain it's a
platform for a test automation
where NBME is just a
framework, which with what you
write the tests. Okay. So
Gallia will run basically and
unit tests as well as
M build it and so
on. Okay. But before that,
one of the things that
I wanted to focus on
is not what small improvements
we've made so far, but
where should we be looking
at to the future? What
are the problems developers who
are using these frameworks trying
to solve or trying to
test some of these, we
have no solution so far
such as parallelism. How do
you write tests that are
running parallel testing, concurrency? How
do you test for deadlocks,
for example? Yeah. Yeah. And
is there a difference between
a unit testing framework and
an integration testing, And how
would you want to write
integration tests with the unit
test framework that you want
to have a different framework
for? Certainly there's a need
because I have shoehorned a
number of integration tests into
various unit testing frameworks and
struggled along the way, And
we've all done this. And
the big question is, should
we continue to do this?
Are we being stuck somewhere?
We were not, we don't
even know it should. Is
there something, is there another
dimension that we are supposed
to be going to, and
that we are stuck on
right now and like maybe
a year from now, we
realize, wow, we were, we
were like two years of
in the past when all
along, we should have done
this little thing and everything
would have changed. Certainly we're
going to have the benefit
of hindsight in a year,
but it sounds like you
guys have a plan for
the future with this project
gallium. Well, let's talk About
Gallia for a moment. So
Gallio is, is a neutral
platform for automation tests. And
what that means is, is
we provide, we provide test
runners, we provide integration with
the ID. We provide integration
with the build tools and
we, and, and so on.
And really what it's intended
to be is this sort
of layer on top of
which you can sit any
framework you like currently we
support and be unit version
three and version two, of
course, we also support end
unit X unit.net. We've got
ms. Test on there as
well, and there will be
others. Presumably you support the
various mocking frameworks like tight
Mach represented here today. Of
course We support type mock.
We have a integration with
Anne cover and PacSun ReSharper
and all sorts of great
tools. The whole tool kit
kit, it's a, it's a
gigantic tool chain. And the
really, the reason for that
is that we want to
promote innovation in two different
spaces, especially. So one is
we want to promote innovation
and the test frameworks, Roy
asks a great question. Should
we be using a unit
test framework to do integration
testing? The reason traditionally that
we use a unit testing
framework to do integration testing
is because the unit testing
framework has all the good
tools, right? We, we have
access to all of these
affordances and integration points with
our ID and with our
build tool chain. And so
on that, it just makes
sense to try to use
that, to do integration testing.
Well, maybe we can do
better. So the idea is
that someone can choose to
try to do something better
and build an integration testing
framework, purpose built with natural
constraints in the system for
integration testing purposes on top
of Galileo. And we provide
all sorts of features in
the platform to help make
that possible. No, it might
understand kind of paraphrasing that
you are lowering the bar
for the entry of new
frameworks that have yet to
be thought of such that
if I want to make
a Hansel tests 2000, I
don't have to do test
runners and visual studio integration
and all these other things
that were formerly be administrivia
really to, to my innovation
that are preventing me from
getting jump-started about my new
idea. That's, that's absolutely the
case. And there's a surprising
amount of effort involved in,
in this infrastructure. Actually, when
you start thinking about how
many tools you have to
integrate with, but we're also
lowering the bar for people
who want to innovate in
the test runner space as
well. You know, the gooey
that we provide is, is
great. It's improving. And, you
know, we have integration with
re ReSharper and other things,
but I'm sure someone out
there has some really fantastic
ideas for tools and affordances
that they would love to
provide that would work across
a wide of different frameworks.
So instead of, you know,
having to roll their own
complete tool chain, they can
build on top of ours,
provide some new kind of
runner as well. A couple
of years ago at my
last company, I used a
Adaptive's Zane bug, which was
a, an Uber test runner,
but he had to go
and figure out how to
test, run all of these
different available frameworks. It sounds
like he would be able
to build that on top
of Galileo and he would
get free unit tests running
for, for all Exactly. And
we want to encourage this.
We've got a few, a
few projects that we're looking
to start actually in this
space, one of which being
tentatively named our communities, which
would build on top of
the Galleo platform to provide
a test case management solution
for automation tests. So basically
a place where all of
your test results are kept
and can then be subjected
to analysis and review. What
are some of the extreme
examples of really cool things
that you've seen in the
testing space? One of the
things that I was particularly
proud of at my last
company was that the guys
decided that rather than a
DLLs and a bin folder
popping out at the other
end of a continuous integration
build that the, the result
of a build a daily
build would be a virtual
machine. And we wrote automation
stuff to create machines, bring
them up, totally bare bones,
ex copy our product and
deploy it into the system
and then run integration tests
on a live running machine,
shut it down, freeze, dry
it like a bug in
Amber and have it prepared
every single day for the
sales guy to pick up
that day's virtual machine. And,
and we were patting ourselves
on the back about that
for quite a number of
months. And still, I think
that's pretty, pretty innovative. Yeah.
You know, this is a
tool that we're actually looking
to build internally at, at
my employer in Genio and
would be extraordinarily usefulness. You
know, if someone wants to
build this thing, go ahead,
let me know. I want
it Just the fact that
you said internal, I know
that at Microsoft there's internal
tools like that as well,
but I don't know if
they're, if they are named
and if they will ever
release is that every team
at every company seems to
have built something, some kind
of Rube Goldberg in miracle
that creates exactly what they
needed, but it never gets
generalized and released into the
wild. And now that you've
told everybody we're going to
have to take you out
back and shoot you. Sorry.
Well, of course, if you're
interested in working in that
stuff, you could come work
with me and maybe we'll
build it together. Exactly. What
about you, Roy? I don't
think it's possible to have
such a generalized thing for,
for companies because each project
is so different and it's
so made out of string
and gum just to make
it work. So it just
makes it impossible to, to
make something as generic because
it would just take too
much time and you'll always
have edge cases and build
a bill process is just
a series of edge cases.
Well, you know, interestingly, I
would have agreed with you
a few years ago, but
so I've seen some really
neat innovation in the EMIS
build space. And it just
an obscene amount of ms.
Bill tasks to automate every
thing out of the sun.
So these are tasks, these
are Lego tasks. And I
use final builder to create,
and I've created my own
Rube Goldberg, Murray and machines,
if you call it whatever.
But the thing is, the
things we've created are created
using these small blocks. So
if you use a good
bill tool with good tasks,
you can build anything, but
you cannot build a full
process that is generalized enough
per project. Brad looks like
you disagree. No, I don't
disagree. Actually. I had something
I wanted to add. And
so Microsoft, you know, has
been in the virtualization space
for awhile, but there's a,
there's an interesting product that
most people don't really think
about called soft grid, which
is done by a team
in Boston and soft grid
actually allows you to create
a semi-private semi virtualized environment
inside of an existing copy
of windows. And I can't
help, but wonder if there's
some integration points here where
we can say, you don't
have to go through the
pain of bringing up an
entire virtual machine. You can
just give this self, give
the code that you want
to test its own little
playground. That's isolated from the
rest of the software on
the machine. It's really interesting
at math, my last company,
and I keep apologize for
invoking my last company so
often, but I've only been
at Microsoft a number of
months and I was there
for seven years, but we
needed to deploy large systems.
And number of times where
N was typically a very
large number and we ended
up taking the running system
as it were the binaries,
the incomplete running system, and
checking the entire tree into
subversion and then telling all
of our drone machines to
simultaneously do a checkout. And
they would bring down a
complete running configured system and
bring it down into the
program files folder. But of
course there were those little
edge cases like, Oh, the
registry that needed to be
handled. And if I had
a virtual machine that wasn't
quite so virtual, just a
virtual space, such that my
application had its own registry
and its own GAC and
all those kinds of things,
the deployment would be easier.
The build process would be
easier. The idea of putting
a roll back attribute on
an integration test for an
entire large system is a
very attractive idea. That's a
pretty cool idea. Someone must
be thinking of it. Isn't
that the way with good
ideas. If you've come up
with it, then it's someone
is currently working on it
somewhere in the world. I
think the whole idea of
that, I think we're, we've
passed that, that, that we're
past a point where we
need to worry about how
we're going to undo stuff
to the system. Because the
bill tools that we have
these days, like final builder,
visual build pro and so
on, they're mature enough and
they have enough tasks. We
can pretty much do anything
and automate it. It would
take a considerable amount of
time to do it on
the first run. For example,
I had a solution with
120 projects. I was consolidating
database changes and merging stuff,
automatically pushing stuff out, doing
Testing and all that stuff
took a month to build
that build process on an
existing project. But once we
had that, everything else was
trivial. So this is just
a bureaucracies, The undo. I
mean, the virtualization was on
a virtual machine, so why
do I care? Well, wow.
But see, I felt that
I felt a little bit
there, like you were trivializing
virtualization, but then you said
that the entire process was
running on a virtual machine
to create a virtual
machine, run it, automate it,
install stuff on it. Right.
So it's there it's mature
enough. So you don't have
to worry about it. If
the tool is there, like
replacing stuff in XML files
done, you know, it's not
that big a deal. I
don't think that's our problem.
These are the problems we
need to worry about these
days. Not the bill process
is to test the tools
well. So infrastructure infrastructure is
great and allows you to
do all sorts of things.
Once it's built, it takes
a whole lot of effort
to get there. So anything
we can do to lessen
the amount of effort required
for people to implement more
advanced infrastructure, such as, you
know, such as generating virtual
machine images, as part of
your continuous integration process is
great. And it will benefit
way more people than, than
if we just say, well,
you know, here are the
20 tools that you can
slap together using scripting glue
and some, you know, simple,
well sort of maybe not
so simple explanations as to
how to do Right. If
MacGyver were doing the process,
how that, how would that
look? Well, it would have
to involve a piece of
chewing gum and a car
battery. Exactly. But sometimes it
feels like we're MacGyver. As
we try to get these
things working, you're saying Roy,
that the tools are the
issue, but I'm not seeing,
I'm always lashing together. 20
different tools from 20 different
places. You don't have to
Scott. That's what I'm saying.
I think we are at
that state where most developers,
the only reason, the only
thing that's stopping people today
from doing a real and
a maintainable build process is
knowing the tools that exist
out there. What is this
Holy grail tool that I'm
completely missing? The point on
that is that you keep
speaking of, I don't think
sinal builder is the answer
to the world's bill. To
me, the answer is TeamCity
plus final builder. Okay. So
that's an interesting point of
view. So you would like
TeamCity and final builder. Do
you guys want to weigh
in on what your, I
mean, it's my, as you're
thinking very declaratively or that
are, the problem is solved
for me. So then for
a lot of other developers
that I've seen, the problem
is solved, but they just
don't realize that because they
keep doing their Nan task
and Duramis built ass under
XML configurations when they can
do it visually and in
a maintainable manner. So I
don't get it. I seriously
don't get it personally. I
really liked my ms build
tasks and how they've all
been slapped together. And, and
actually we've managed to do
so quite maintainable. And you'll
see this in the unit
fee source tree, if you
ever check it out. But
I believe that you won't
a single Holy grail tool.
You will still find domain
specific tools to solve various
problems. So, you know, maybe,
maybe you'll find that using,
using something like final builder
will make it easier for
you to set up your
continuous integration build process or,
or perhaps you already have
built scripts that you use
in the command line and
then cruise control.net. Actually, isn't,
isn't so bad if you
already have those scripts, but
for actually running the tests
and distributing them. I want
that to be Gallio, maybe.
So, so let's try to
bring this around to, we
talked about bill, which was
a little indirect. We talked
about testing. I want my
build test build test to
be kind of the same
thing. And then what's beyond
unit testing. We had spoken
briefly before about the idea
that do I want to
write integration tests with my
unit test tools? Or is
there some other, a yet
to be written tool? Would
you, do you guys advocate
using your tools for the
creation of integration tests? I
have shocked many clients by
telling them not to use
N unit for their integration
and high level tests. You
know, it's not what it
was built for. Your, your
end unit tests are basically
running in a little sandbox
that makes it to the
environment, somewhat different from what's
going to happen when you're
running the full application. And
when you're really doing your
final integration tests, your system
tests, you need to be
doing that in an environment
that's suitable for it. You
also want, I believe since
I, I practice various agile
approaches, I believe that you
want your overall tests to
be in a form that
is digestible by a user
by customer. And I don't
think that C sharp code,
even though it's a lot
easier to read than C
plus plus or COBOL is
really what the user or
the customer wants to see.
So I like to use
frameworks like fit or exactor
or a frame, the frameworks
that reduce it all to
simple statements of what you're
going to do. Interesting. Well,
let's, that's how you actually
used a selenium and water
and Watson at my last
job to do my testing.
I of course ran them
within unit, but ultimately they
were doing the work and
they were working against live
machines. Let's each have one,
one last comment from each
of you, as we finish
up our panel here. I
also think that acceptance style
testing tools like fit fitness
are a direction they're not
there yet. They're there. Some
of them are horribly buggy,
but we need to look
at the future of these
tools. For example, storyteller from
Jeremy Miller that's you can look
at that as the beginning
of the future. What we
would like these tools to
look like, look at Gallio
is maybe the basis on
which future tools maybe in
a year or two will
be built on or based
on in thought, that's it
for me? So I'd actually
like to ask, ask your
readers to help us define
what these tools should be.
In many cases, I know
a lot of people have
built things internally to solve
their problems, and it would
be great to get some
insight into what those things
have been and to share
those ideas more widely and,
and publish them and hopefully
get in touch with, with
us and, you know, contribute
that, that experience, that knowledge
and those needs. I think
that's an excellent call to
action. Jeff, do you have
anything that you want to
add Brett, plus three plus
three? I think all their
points are, are valid and
reasonable. The tools are in
mature, the existing TDD tools
are not appropriate, and we're
going to find out what
people are using. I think
that's going to drive the
innovation. I don't think I'm,
I'm personally a TDD tester.
I don't really think I'm
qualified to say what these
things are. I mean, I
got to ask somebody else,
who's doing this job and
it's not me. Yeah. Well,
I definitely think this is
a very exciting time if
you're not involved in test
development, this is the time
to jump in in, in
any final words, Charlie well,
and unit is a continuing,
it's adding more features. It's
a building it's new, a
very large scope platform, which
could pretty much Matt, you
know, be the same promises
that Jeff has been making,
that, you know, that to
be able to run anything
and, and everything. But I
think the really important thing
is that we, we continue
to have this diversity in
this space because I think
that's where the innovation and
the ideas come from. And,
you know, while we want
everything to be interchangeably usable,
I don't think we want
to create one big thing
that everyone will thereafter use,
even though that's, you know,
one thinks of that sometimes
as the definition of success
in the marketplace. Definitely. I
think it's a really exciting
time to be involved in
testing right now. And I
really want to thank you
guys. Charlie Poole, Roy Osher
of Jeff Brown and Brad Wilson.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week.